getting from A to B can be done in
various ways if it's close enough you
can walk and if it's within the city
limits you can take public transit if
it's a bit further away you can take the
train or the plane all of those ways
though compromise your sense of freedom
since you are forced to follow a set
departure or arrival schedule the 2013
Hyundai Accent is one of the most
affordable ways to get around with
privacy freedom and convenience prices
start at thirteen thousand seven hundred
and forty nine dollars and I bet you're
already thinking that what you get in
return is a piece of crap well yeah
after all you do get what you pay for
but add a few dollars extra and get a
GLS automatic like our test vehicle and
oh boy
are you in for a surprise at eighteen
thousand nine hundred and forty nine
dollars you get in return a car with
features that not too many years ago
were optional extras even on big luxury
sedans all the previous generations of
the accent were dreadful they were as
fun as root canals and their drivers
were stigmatized for life
the latest one though is a bit different
first of all it looks nice it is easily
one of the best design subcompact cars
out there today inside the cabin is
comfortable and the features available
are those that once upon a time were
considered revolutionary even for an
s-class machine the driver's seat is
height adjustable and the leather
wrapped steering wheel is as well
it has electronic climate control and a
CD player with mp3 playback Bluetooth
connectivity and XM satellite radio it
also has a sunroof heated front seats
six airbags
EBS stability control cruise control and
all-around disc brakes it even comes
with alloy wheels the dashboard is well
put together fit and finish are
relatively good and the pattern on the
hard plastic - cover makes it
interesting to look at the blue lighting
and soft push buttons add points to the
ergonomics and overall settling in the
accent is done quickly in trouble-free
visibility to the sides and front is
good but the rear window is very narrow
limiting the view to the rear the back
seats are comfortable for - or
occasionally three adil and the legroom
and Headroom are similar to what you get
in other bigger hatchbacks the trunk
size is impressive for the class and
capable of carrying more than just the
week's worth shopping under the hood
there's a spirited 1.6 liter 4-cylinder
gamma engine that is capable of
converting regular unleaded the 138
horsepower which is no doubt very
impressive the maximum of 123 pound-feet
of torque
come a bit high at 4800 50 rpm but
throttle response is very good and
overall the accent feels nippy and
joyful 0 to 100 takes only ten point
four seconds and the 6-speed automatic
gearbox proves to be smooth enough and
comes with well set ratios fuel economy
with the Eco mode on was just 7.9 litres
per 100 kilometers combined and that was
achieved without any real effort put
into it the rear solid axle suspension
in theory might imply that the handling
will be catastrophic but in practice the
suspension has been tuned to be soft
enough to hide the primitive layout the
accent rides well through urban routes
and will get you where you're going
hustle free push it hard in the corners
or try to get sporty with it and you
will soon realize that you're in the
wrong car the front anti-roll bar is
thin to allow early under
dear and the result is a safe but
slow-paced car
expect no drama when the stability
control is on and if you decide to push
it it will understeer soon enough to
stop you from getting any wrong ideas
the steering has good weight to it and
feedback is adequate
while the brake pedal feels just a bit
on the spongy side in case of an
emergency though the brakes bite really
well and the accent came to a complete
stop from 100 kilometres an hour in just
43 metres overall the accent which
represents the basic means of
transportation showcases that they have
come a long way it is no longer just the
upgrade from taking the bus and driving
one around no longer implies anything
about you it is actually a pretty good
affordable and safe little car